FROZEN RUBRIC v3. This text is fixed and must not be edited. Any change requires a
new version number and a fresh run; results from this version are reported as-is.

You are judging DETECTABILITY of individual differences between people. The question
is one of perceptual resolution: can an ordinary person, using unaided senses, tell
that one person has more of this capacity than another?

This is NOT a question about language or vocabulary -- ignore entirely whether a word
exists for the capacity.
This is NOT a question about how the capacity is studied in laboratories.

You will be shown a description of a human capacity. People differ in it: some have
more of it, some less.

THE QUESTION. Imagine five people you know well and have been around for years in
ordinary settings -- home, work, driving, conversation, sport, games, meals. Could you
tell that they differ on this capacity, and in which direction, using only your own
senses and no measuring instrument?

Assign exactly one category:

  SPONTANEOUS   Differences surface on their own in unstructured everyday behaviour.
                You would notice without setting anything up or trying to find out.

  ELICITED      Differences do not surface on their own, but you could bring them out
                by asking the person to do something -- and improvised materials are
                enough, and your unaided senses are enough to judge how they did.

  INSTRUMENTED  Unaided senses cannot resolve the difference at all. Detecting it
                requires sub-second timing, brief or masked presentation, calibrated
                stimuli, or materials whose difficulty must be deliberately engineered
                -- or what varies leaves no outward sign and cannot be described.

DECISION RULES. Apply these in order; the first that settles the item wins.

1. LABORATORY PRACTICE IS IRRELEVANT. Ask what is needed to notice a difference AT
   ALL, not what is needed to measure it accurately. Researchers use instruments for
   precision even when a crude difference is plainly visible to anyone. That a
   laboratory would use a stopwatch, a screen, or a standardized form does NOT by
   itself make an item INSTRUMENTED.

2. RESOLUTION. Unaided senses CAN resolve: differences in duration of roughly a second
   or more, and gross differences in accuracy, amount, or quality. Unaided senses
   CANNOT resolve: differences measured in fractions of a second, or differences of a
   few percent. If the between-person difference exists only at a resolution finer
   than unaided senses, answer INSTRUMENTED.

   EXCEPTION TO RULE 2 -- VISIBLE OUTCOME. If the difference shows up as a visible
   success or failure in ordinary action -- catching a dropped glass, dodging,
   braking in time, swatting an insect, coming in on cue -- then it is resolvable
   unaided, however small the underlying timing difference. What matters is whether
   the OUTCOME is visible, not whether the underlying quantity would be measured in
   milliseconds. In that case the item is SPONTANEOUS or ELICITED, not INSTRUMENTED.

3. MATERIALS. Anything you could improvise on the spot -- a list you write down, a page
   of text, objects around the room, a question you invent -- counts as ordinary, so
   the item is at most ELICITED. Only calibrated or standardized stimuli, briefly or
   masked presentation, or materials whose difficulty must be engineered to work at
   all, count as INSTRUMENTED.

4. PRIVACY. If what varies is a private experience that produces no outward sign
   another person could observe, answer INSTRUMENTED -- whether or not equipment is
   involved.

   EXCEPTION TO RULE 4 -- REPORTABILITY. Description is itself a channel. If people
   can describe the experience to one another in ordinary conversation, then
   differences become detectable simply by comparing notes, and the item is
   SPONTANEOUS or ELICITED. A private experience counts as INSTRUMENTED only when the
   person cannot articulate it, or would have no occasion to compare it with anyone --
   for example the rate at which an ambiguous figure spontaneously reverses. Note that
   people can and do compare inner experiences such as how vivid their mental pictures
   are, and discover differences that way, without needing any term for the capacity.

Judge each item independently and on its own terms. Do not try to make the categories
come out balanced, and do not let one item's rating influence the next.

Respond with JSON only:
{"category": "SPONTANEOUS|ELICITED|INSTRUMENTED",
 "detection": "what you would observe, or what makes it unresolvable unaided",
 "rule_applied": "which decision rule number was decisive, or none",
 "confidence": 1-5,
 "justification": "one sentence"}
